## Research Data Access & Preservation Workshop: Collaborative Curation of Open Educational Datasets

The RDAP Education & Resources committee presents the first in a series of online, interactive workshops: Collaboratively Curating Open, Educational Datasets. Participants in this event will have an opportunity to gain hands-on experience with common data curation strategies and tools by curating a publicly available dataset to improve its FAIR-ness and educational fitness-for-purpose.

For this initial workshop, participants will curate data that have been previously published on the New Mexico Digital Collections, a statewide service provided by the University of New Mexico. The collection of focus is the UNM Center for Southwest Research's Linda S. Cordell Digital Media and Archaeological Data collection: https://econtent.unm.edu/digital/collection/cordell, which consists of documents, media, and other items from the archive of distinguished UNM archaeology professor, Dr. Linda Cordell. In particular, the pubished collection includes research data describing the chemical compositions of regional soil and corn samples. The objectives of this workshop will be to provide some additional curation to augment the metadata for these items and outline learning modules that appropriately use the data to demonstrate data curation strategies and/or archaeological research methods.
Participants will be encouraged to provide feedback on the workflows, tools, and outcomes of the workshop to support its expansion and application to additional data types and disciplines.
